#Introduction 
Graph Databases are one of the largest growing categories in data management,
yet they remain an enigma to many.
 Graph Databases are well-suited for analysing interconnections, which is why there has been a lot of interest in using graph databases to mine data. The most commonly used source for this purpose is Social Media. Social Media like Facebook, Twitter , LinkedIn are on top priorities , as an operational presence for organisations, small or large. Analysis of these evolutionary networks is challenging and is currently a topic of research.
Social Network Data can be categorized into user demographics,
link information and the content generated by various users. 
Analysis of an individual categories itself delivers a large amount of useful knowledge that can be used for commercial a
pplications. One such data analysis technique is Influence Analysis.
Influence Analysis is a metric to quantify the influence that certain social network users (influencers) have over other social network users because of their knowledge and reputation on a certain topic. This technique requires the analysis of links between users which can be easily performed using Neo4j Graph Database. Neo4j enables us to treat relationships between data as equally important as the data itself and study the connection between users. It enables users to efficiently traverse the graph structure and provides user friendly visualization of the result.    

1.1 Motivation


Graph Database gives us ability to handle relationship as a first class citizen of database.
Its intuitive and expressive data model help us to visualize relationship in user-friendly manner than relational data model.
.Its gives minutes to millisecond performance.
Social networks (SNs), such as WeChat, Facebook, and Twitter, have
emerged and tightly connected web users all over the worldin traversing the links in network.
Social influence analysis  is becoming an impor-
tant part of social networks.
h databases 

1.2 Objective
Our objective is to exploit graph database ,its application in social network .
We figured out its effective use in analysing the
influential nodes in twitter data.


1.4 Organisation of Report

This report is organized as follows :
chapter 1 : 
Provides an overview of graph database,social network data and its analysis ,also introduces influence analysis concept.It provides motivation
and objective to our project.
Chapter 2: 
It provides detail information of graph databse,its importance,CAP Theorem.It introduces Neo4j its importance and application.
It focuses on social network ,its applications  and gives detailed survey of approaches and techniques for influentical analysis in social 
twitter network.
Chapter 3:
Describes our work in the project and provides overview of the future plan.
