//Chapter 2 Updated

Overview 

Online social networks (OSNs) are dynamic social interaction platforms for billions of users
worldwide. Information and ideas are rapidly disseminated among these users through online
social interactions. The online interactions among OSN users generate a huge volume of data
that provides the opportunity to study human behavioral patterns. An
in-depth investigation of OSNs is important to enhance the understanding of the relationships
among people and to help address several issues regarding society.

Study of Social Network

Social networking is the use of internet-based social media programs to make
connections with friends, family, classmates, customers and clients. Social
networking can occur for social purposes, business purposes or both through
sites such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn etc. Social networking is also a
significant target area for marketers seeking to engage users. With the rise of
the Internet and technology, Online Social Networks (OSNs) turned into chal-
lenging cases of study, on which big data content and complex interpersonal
ties among actors converge. A social network can be represented by a graph,
whose nodes can represent the users, and the edges the interpersonal ties
among them. By analyzing and mining social networks, we can gather infor-
mation on the comments people make with respect to a particular product.
Analysis of such comments shows its valuable for the design of marketing
and advertising campaigns.



Classification based on Social Network
Topology-based social networks 

• Online Social Networks 
They are virtual communities which allow people to connect and interact with each other
on a particular subject or to just “hang out” together online.
• Mobile social networks 
With the significant development of wireless network technologies (i.e. cellular network, WiFi, and Bluetooth),
web-based online social network applications have lead to a shift from
online networks to mobile networks.


Function-based social networks-
• Social news: A social news website features user-posted stories that are
ranked based on popularity
• Instant messaging (IM): IM is a type of online chat platform that pro-
vides real-time text transmission over the Internet.
• Microblogging: It allows users exchange small elements of content, such
as short sentences, individual images, or video links such asTwitter
is a microblogging platform, which allows registered users to publish
short text though multiple interfaces, including Web, SMS, and instant
messaging.
• Social bookmarking: It is a centralized online service that allows users
to add, edit, annotate, and share bookmarks of web documents, such
as StumbleUpon.
• Internet forum: It is an online discussion site where people can hold
conversations in the form of posted messages.
• Media sharing website: It allows users to upload, view, comment, and
share multiple dimensions information, such as files, videos, photos,
music, movie. For example - YouTube.
• Social networking: It allows users to share ideas, posts, pictures, ac-
tivities, events, and interests with people in their network, such as
Facebook.

Social Network Data(SND)

Social Network Data is evolutionary which comes with characteristic such as
data are unstructured which comes in format like plain text, RDF, JSON,
makes it difficult for users to index or load such data in a database, also they
are noisy and heterogeneous in nature. Converting social network raw data
to the precise graph representation is crucial for data analytical framework
to make accurate decisions and predictions. When appropriately done, graph
can captures the essential aspects of the data and abstracts away the noisy,
irrelevant parts. Modelling the interactions between entities as graphs has
enabled to understand the various network systems in a systematic manner.



// image of heterogenous

Heterogenous Data : Distinguishes different types of objects and links in the network. The heterogeneous information 
contains richer structure and semantic information.It is classified based on features and applications.


Social Influence Analysis
Social network influence pertains to the ability of a user to change the feelings,
attitudes, or behaviors of other users in a network.Social influence is the
impression that a person has on others or in other words, certain individuals
in a community or network influence other participants to form views on
several subjects and issues. These individuals are called as influencers, who
led the foundation of opinions, public knowledge and attitudes.

// image of influencer


Advantages of social influence analysis
• In terms of sociology, it is helpful to understand people’s social behaviors
• In terms of public services, it is helpful to provide a theoretical basis for
public decision making and public opinion guidance
• In terms of country, it is also helpful to promote national security, eco-
nomic stability, economic progress, and so on.

Difficulties in social influence analysis
• Do not have a mathematical definition and measurement of social
influence.
• It is very difficult to decide the major factors for a specific case to social
influence modeling.
• There is no effective ways to properly integrate various factors for influ-
ence measurement
• It is hard to characterize the causal relationship of social influence, as well
as the uncertainty of social influence.
• Moreover, in a real-world social network, the influential users cannot be
determine without having prior knowledge of influential domain and
19even after achieving results, human intervention is needed to justify
those results.
• Human intervention is needed to justify those results even after achieving
results.


Categories of Influence Analysis

User Based Analysis

Users on social media are from various communities and background having
different taste and choices, while active on social networking sites. Finding
right user for specific analysis or recommendation can helps the organization
to better understand their customers. User based analysis mainly divided
into three categories-
• Group of users or community where peoples are grouped based on similar
interest.They are also related to each other based on some forehand
knowing criteria’s like any other communities in the real world e.g.
college group.
• Classification of users based on different characteristics such as behavior,
preferences, etc.
• Group of spammers.
As social networking sites do not give well-built authentication mechanisms,
and it is quite easy to masquerade as a user and creep into a person’s network
of trust whether he is friend or not known as spammers.


Link Based Analysis

Social networking sites can be formulated as graphs, where each vertex re-
flects as user and edges reflects as relationships between many users. So-
cial networking sites are active networks which changes dynamically with
time, incoming new vertexes and edges are regularly combined with existing
graphs. To explore relation based structural analysis which mainly based
on link prediction, influence analysis, community discovery using correlation
20links, social tie prediction as well as tie strength prediction, etc. Link pre-
diction used to predict the probable forthcoming connection between two
vertexes.


Content Based Analysis

Social media and networking sites contains textual data in the form of mes-
sages, opinions, multimedia data such as images, videos, locations etc. Al-
most every content analysis such as data analysis, text analysis, and mul-
timedia analysis can be translated to social media analytics. In general,
content analysis can be define as process of summarizing, quantitative analy-
sis of messages or text that relies on the scientific method includes attention
to objectivity,inter-subjectivity, apriori design, reliability, validity, generaliz-
ability, replicability, and hypothesis testing.


The influence analysis on social network can be perform on either entire
network-
• Global influence take considers overall action of the whole social network
with the goal of finding the most influential users in an entire network. For
example, consider a phenomenon that detects influencers users based on the
criteria of most number of followers across the whole Twitter network(i.e.,
global indegree).
• Local influence take into account the actions of either a topic or group/community
with the goal of finding the most influential user based on the criteria of
member with most number of followers who belongs to particular topic or
group/community(local indegree).

Application of Influence Analysis

//image of influence analysis

• Viral Marketing : Influence dissemination patterns are useful in under-
standing the specific reasons behind the rapid adoption of certain in-
novations. Patterns help marketers and advertisers implement effective
campaigns. Viral marketing depends on the assumption that the pur-
chasing decisions of a user are heavily influenced by the suggestions
and recommendations of friends in social networks.
• Political Movements : Politicians in modern democracies worldwide have
eagerly adopted OSN platforms to engage with users, specifically during
election campaigns. Results have shown that the statement influenced
the actual voting behavior of millions of people.
• News Spreading : The OSNs have become significant channels for broad-
casting and collecting news. Influential news broadcasters can be cat-
egorized into 3 groups: individuals associated with the media, grass-
roots or ordinary users, and celebrities. Official media sources reach
the majority of OSN (Twitter) users and spread most headlines daily.
Opinion leaders and celebrities can reach users distant from the core of
the network.
• Health Applications : Online social media platforms have also become sub-
stantial sources of health data. OSN website users discuss numerous
common interest topics, including health issues. For instance, Twitter
is used by patients and doctors to share their personal feelings and
experiences. Furthermore, OSNs comprise several
health communities that aim to address the concerns of patients or
users regarding various diseases.
• Spread of Opinions : Posts from influential users with influential friends
would be acknowledged and expanded at a very high rate by their
followers and may rapidly spread in the network through information
dissemination. Opinion formation is the result of information dissem-
ination among OSN users through the communication and discussion
of opinions, views, and beliefs about specific topics.
• Corporate Communication : OSN users have an accumulative influence on
the business reputation of organizations. Influential users of OSNs can
spread positive or negative posts or opinions on services or products to
other OSN users. This process can significantly affect the reputation of
an organization because a post within an OSN can spread to numerous
users.
• Spread of Natural Disaster Situation Awareness : OSN platforms are abun-
dant and real-time information sources relative to real-world events,
especially during mass crises. Valuable information from OSNs can
provide significant insights into time-critical situations for the effective
and timely analysis of the hazards of current emergencies and activities.
• Rumor Restraint Rumors cause significant social damage. Rumors have
received considerable research attention in the literature on OSNs, in
which recent studies have demonstrated their rapid spread in the OSN
context.

Evaluation metrics for social influence

Centrality measures
Centrality is an important concept in studying social networks. Conceptu-
ally, centrality measures how central an individual is positioned in a social
network. The commonly used tools are graph theory and network analysis.

Degree centrality
Intuitive Definition: The node with the most
connections is the most important.
Degree centrality is defined by counting the number of links incident upon
a node, namely, the number of edges that a node possesses. For a directed
network, we usually use to metrics for degree centrality: in-degree, which is
a count of the number of edges directed to the node, and out-degree, which
is the number of edges that the node directs to others.
Mathematical Definition is given in equation(1):
//image 

Closeness centrality
Intuitive Definition: The most important node is the one
that is the most independent.
Closeness centrality is defined as the average distance from one vertex
to the other vertices in a network. In influence analysis, we can treat it a
metric of efficiency of each node in terms of spreading information in the
network. The larger the closeness centrality of a node, the better positioned
the node is in the social network.

Mathematical Definition is given in equation(2):
// image

Betweenness centrality
Intuitive Definition: The node with the most strategic location is the most
important.
Betweenness centrality measures the times a node acts as a bridge
along the shortest path of two other nodes. Under the assumption that item
transfer follows the shortest paths, a node of a high betweenness centrality
possesses a better influence through the network. The concept of betweenness
centrality has a wide application in practice, such as biology, social networks,
transport, and so on.

Mathematical Definition is given in equation(3):
// image

Eigenvector centrality

Intuitive Definition: The node that has the most information flowing through
it is the most important.
Eigenvector centrality is a measurement on influence of a given node in a network.
Relative scores are assigned to all nodes in a
network based on an assumption that connections to high-scoring nodes con-
tribute more to the score of the node than connections to low-scoring nodes.

Consider the example :
//images


//image of eigen vector

Exploring technology for SNA

Graph Database is a system that stores data in a graph structure and al-
lows the execution of more semantic queries, directly retrieving related data.
This type of database not only improves the representation of relationships,
but also lets us use more elaborated data analysis techniques, such as com-
munity detection, pattern recognition and centrality measures. Unlike other
databases, relationships take first priority in graph databases. This means
your application does not have to infer data connections using things like
foreign keys or out-of-band processing, such as MapReduce.



Graph Database

A graph is an abstract data type typically used to model data that con-
tains objects (referred to as nodes or vertices), and some sort of relationship
between those objects (lines or edges).
//image of graph

A graph database is essentially a collection of nodes and edges. Each node
represents an entity (such as a person or business) and each edge represents
a connection or relationship between two nodes. Every node in a graph
database is defined by a unique identifier, a set of outgoing edges and/or
incoming edges and a set of properties expressed as key/value pairs. Each
edge is defined by a unique identifier, a starting-place and/or ending-place
node and a set of properties. These properties correspond to the columns in
a relational database. Edges are use to describe the relationships between
the objects contained in the database, and in most they can be compared to
the foreign key column of a row in a RDBMS.

Need of Graph Datbases
We live in a connected world! There are no isolated pieces of information, but
rich, connected domains all around us. Most of the data exists in the form
of the relationship between different objects and more often,the relationship
between the data is more valuable than the data itself. Only a database
that natively embraces relationships is able to store, process, and query con-
nections efficiently. While other databases compute relationships at query
time through expensive JOIN operations, a graph database stores connec-
tions alongside the data in the model. Accessing nodes and relationships in
a native graph database is an efficient, constant-time operation and allows
you to quickly traverse millions of connections per second per core. Inde-
pendent of the total size of your dataset, graph databases excel at managing
highly connected data and complex queries. With only a pattern and a set of
starting points, graph databases explore the neighboring data around those
initial starting points,collecting and aggregating information from millions
of nodes and relationships,and leaving any data outside the search perime-
ter untouched. Graph databases, by design, allow simple and fast retrieval
of complex hierarchical structures that are difficult to model in relational
systems.

Graph Database as NoSQL Structure

NoSQL means Not Only SQL, is a whole new way of thinking about a
database. It is an approach to non-relational data management and database
design that’s useful for distributed data stores where very large scale of un-
structured data storing needs. It encompasses a wide range of technologies
and architectures.

Brewer’s CAP theorem
CAP theorem Relates to NoSQL. CAP theorem tries to demonstrate the
properties expected by a NoSQL database. Most of the databases are de-
signed to achieve two of these properties at the cost of another property.
• C - Consistency When performing an operation you always have to receive
the same information, regardless the node that process the order. It
means that no matter which node that forms our Database receives
an order, everyone must respond to the operation equally and must be
transparent to us who effected it. All clients see the same version of
data.
• A - Availability The system provides answers for all requests it receives,
even if one or more nodes are down.
• P - Partition tolerance The system still Works even though it has been
divided by a network failure.

Types of NoSQL Databases

NoSQL databases are guaranteed to adhere to two of the CAP properties.
Such databases are of several types.

• Key-Value Store - Stores in the form of a hash table .Example- Riak,
Amazon S3 (Dynamo), Redis.

Format-
Key
“India”
Value
{“B-25, Sector-58, Noida, India – 201301”}
• Document-based Store - Stores objects, mostly JSON, which is web friendly
or supports ODM (Object Document Mappings). Example- CouchDB,
MongoDB.

Format-
{ officeName:”Pillar Noida”,
{ street: “B-25, City:”Noida”, State:”UP”, Pincode:”201301”}}
• Column-based Store - Each storage block contains data from only one
column. Example- HBase, Cassandra.
// image

• Graph-based - Graph representation of relationships, mostly used by so-
cial networks. Example- Neo4J.
//image

///table of rdbms and graph db
The trouble to visualise the relationship between entities in a Relational
Database is a is overcomed with the help of graphical representation of graph
databases. The most modern Graph Databases also offer advantages in per-
formance, since they use NoSQL based storage mechanisms. In this way,
these databases became scalable and can be distributed to several process-
ing cores in the cloud.The most popular Graph Databases with this kind of
approach are Neo4J, OrientDB and TitanDB.

Neo4j

Neo4J is the first and most popular native Graph Database according to DB
Engines website. Neo4j is an open-source implemented in Java ,it has its own
query language called Cypher and provides an ACID-compliant transactional
backend for applications. In native graph storage data is stored as graph on
disk, the unit is vertex and edge. Initial development of Neo4j began in 2003,
but it has been publicly available since 2007.
Some of the following particular features make Neo4j very popular among
developers, architects, and DBAs:
• Cypher, a declarative query language similar to SQL, but optimized for
graphs. Now used by other databases like SAP HANA Graph and Re-
dis graph via the openCypher project.
• Constant time traversals in big graphs for both depth and breadth due to
efficient representation of nodes and relationships. Enables scale-up to
billions of nodes on moderate hardware.
• Flexible property graph schema that can adapt over time, making it pos-
sible to materialize and add new relationships later to shortcut and
speed up the domain data when the business needs change.
• Drivers for popular programming languages, including Java, JavaScript,
.NET, Python, and many more.

Advantages of Neo4j-
• Neo4j’s First Mover Advantage is Connecting Everyone to Graphs
• Biggest and Most Active Graph Community .
• Highly Performant Read and Write Scalability, Without Compromise.
• Easy to Learn
    -Mature UI with intuitive interaction and built-in learning
    -A wealth of training materials bringing years of deployment experience
      to your desktop
• Easy to use.
• Easier than Ever to Load Your Data into Neo4j .


Property Graph Model
The key component of Graph Database are :
• Nodes : They are the entities in the graph. They can hold any number of at-
tributes (key-value pairs) called properties. Nodes can be tagged with
labels, representing their different roles in your domain. Node labels
may also serve to attach metadata (such as index or constraint infor-
mation) to certain nodes.
• Relationships : It provide directed, named, semantically-relevant connec-
tions between two node entities (e.g. Employee WORKS-FOR Com-
pany). A relationship always has a direction, a type, a start node, and
an end node. Like nodes, relationships can also have properties. In
most cases, relationships have quantitative properties, such as weights,
costs, distances, ratings, time intervals, or strengths.

• Labels : These are used to group nodes, and each node can be assigned
multiple labels. Labels are indexed to speed up finding nodes in a
graph.
• Properties : These are attributes of both nodes and relationships. Neo4j
allows for storing data as key-value pairs, which means properties can
have any value (string, number, or boolean).

// image which show all relationship

Cypher : Querying data from Neo4j
Cypher is a relatively simple but still very powerful language. Very compli-
cated database queries can easily be expressed through Cypher. This allows
you to focus on your domain instead of getting lost in database access. Our
guiding goal is to make the simple things easy, and the complex things pos-
sible. Cypher focuses on the clarity of expressing what to retrieve from a
graph, not on how to retrieve it.

Neo4j is linguistically efficient than SQL.
Example-
Cypher statement:
MATCH (u:Customer {customer_id:'customer-one'})-[:BOUGHT]->(p:Product)<- [:BOUGHT]-(peer:Customer)-[:BOUGHT]->(reco:Product) 
WHERE not (u)-[:BOUGHT]->(reco) 
RETURN reco as Recommendation, count(*) as Frequency 
ORDER BY Frequency DESC LIMIT 5;

This Cypher query says that for each customer who bought a product, look at the products that peer customers have purchased and
add them as recommendations. The WHERE clause removes products that the customer has already purchased, since we don’t want to 
recommend something the customer already bought.

SQL statement:
SELECT product.product_name as Recommendation, count(1) as Frequency
FROM product, customer_product_mapping, (SELECT cpm3.product_id, cpm3.customer_id
FROM Customer_product_mapping cpm, Customer_product_mapping cpm2, Customer_product_mapping cpm3
WHERE cpm.customer_id = ‘customer-one’
and cpm.product_id = cpm2.product_id
and cpm2.customer_id != ‘customer-one’
and cpm3.customer_id = cpm2.customer_id
and cpm3.product_id not in (select distinct product_id
FROM Customer_product_mapping cpm
WHERE cpm.customer_id = ‘customer-one’)
) recommended_products
WHERE customer_product_mapping.product_id = product.product_id
and customer_product_mapping.product_id in recommended_products.product_id
and customer_product_mapping.customer_id = recommended_products.customer_id
GROUP BY product.product_name
ORDER BY Frequency desc

When it comes to application performance, your database query language matters.
Cypher query is half the length of the SQL statement and significantly sim-
pler. Not only would this Cypher query be faster to create and run, but
it also reduces chances for error. SQL not only suffers from performance
issues due to the JOIN complexity but will also degrade in performance as
the dataset grows.

// image of neo4j char

 Other common Use Case
 
• Recommendation engines : It’s hard to find an online business that doesn’t
use a recommendation engine to recommend relevant products or ser-
vices to customers. A good recommendation engine should correlate a
lot of data and be able to quickly detect new interests shown by clients.
Being focused on entities and relations between them, a Neo4j database
can easily handle recommendations, significantly outperforming other
relational and non-relational databases.
• Privacy and risk compliance : Neo4j facilitates personal data storage
and management it allows you to track where private information is
stored and which systems, applications, and users access it. The graph
data model helps visualize personal data and allows for data analysis
and pattern detection. Neo4j also comes in handy for financial risk
reporting and compliance.
• Geo Routing : Imagine modeling the classic traveling salesman problem
of trying to visit each city on a map exactly once with the short-
est route. The data model is a map of cities and the routes be-
tween them and is already a graph. Applications like routing inven-
tory, scheduling tours and geospatial analysis are more comprehensible
by developers and business owners in Neo4j compared to a relational
database.Performance also goes from “minutes to milliseconds” with-
out relying on extra lookups to indices during retrieval.
• Business Expansion : To deliver the most pleasant customer experience,
businesses need to analyze lots of data. Graph databases help to unify
master data, such as information about customers, products, suppliers,
and logistics. Neo4j allows you to organize master data and model it
in a graph, revealing connections and relationships. Neo4j can provide
important insights so that you can make relevant business decisions.
• Network and IT operation : The size and complexity of your network
and IT infrastructure require a configuration management database
(CMDB) more powerful than anything relational databases have to
offer. Using Neo4j, you can correlate your network, data center and
IT assets to help with troubleshooting, impact analysis and capacity
or outage planning.


2.16 Influential Analysis on Twitter
2.16.1 Twitter Application
Nowadays, Twitter is one of the main online social networking services on
the world. It is a microblog service where users can send and read short
140-character messages called tweets . Tweets may include plain text, URL
pages, images, mentions to other users (preceded by the symbol “@”) and
hashtags , which are words that one decide to highlight by placing the symbol
“# ” in front of them. A trending topic is a term (one or more words) that
in some moment appears in a huge amount of tweets of some place. These
“places” and “moments” are known due to additional metadata contained in
each tweet, which are related with geolocation, time and broadcaster account
information, etc. Many times, trending topics are written as hashtags.

//twitter image

In Twitter there are four types of public relationships: user-to-user, user-
to-tweet, tweet-to-tweet and tweet-to-user. Both the user-to-tweet and the
tweet-to-user relationships are symmetric. In Twitter, when a user A is fol-
lowing another user B , we say that A is a follower of B , and B is a followee
of A . We can also reply a tweet of another user or, in other words, reply to
another user through one of his tweets.Therefore, we can consider that the
reply action belongs to the four kinds of relationships. Two very powerful
actions are sharing, or retweet , the tweet of another user, and marking a
tweet as favorite or like . Retweets and likes also involve an implicit interac-
tion between the user’s action and the author of the original tweet.
As any social network, Twitter can be represented by a digraph G = (V,E),
where V is the set of nodes and E is the set of directed edges that represent
how the nodes are related.

// image of flow chart of twitter
